# OAuth Token-granting Proxy for 3-legged (Authorization code) flow with PKCE

This is an API Proxy that implements the OAuth2.0 3-legged (authorization code) flow, with PKCE ([RFC 7636](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7636)).
The login-and-consent app is bundled with the API Proxy.
This makes it super easy to demonstrate 3-legged OAuthV2 with PKCE in Apigee Edge.


## Disclaimer

This example is not an official Google product, nor is it part of an official Google product.


## Setup

1. You need to create a cache named 'cache1' in your environment.

2. deploy the proxy bundle.

3. Create an API Product, it can allow access to any OTHER api proxy.  The product should have scopes: A,B,C.

4. Create a developer

5. Create a developer app, attached to that developer.
   The app should have a redirect_uri of https://dinochiesa.github.io/pkce-redirect/callback-handler.html
   Retain the client_id and client_secret of the developer app.



## Code Verifier and Challenge

According to RFC7636, the verifier is a string of random characters, from 43 to 128 characters in length. Why? I don't know, that's what the spec says.

The challenge is BASE64URL(SHA256(code_verifier)).
In other words it is a shorter string representing the SHA256 of the verifier.

The two strings are different.  You must compute the challenge from the verifier. It is not possible to compute the verifier from the challenge.

In the /authorize call, the client passes the CHALLENGE.
When exchanging the code for a token, the client passes the VERIFIER.


## To Kick off the flow

```
ORG=myorg
ENV=myenv
client_id=whatever
client_secret=whatever
redirect_uri=https://dinochiesa.github.io/pkce-redirect/callback-handler.html
code_verifier=SOME_RANDOM_STRING_OF_CHARACTERS_OF_SUFFIcienT_LENGTH
code_challenge=BASE64URL(SHA256(code_verifier))

curl -i -X GET "https://$ORG-$ENV.apigee.net/20181127/oauth2-ac-pkce/authorize?client_id=${client_id}&redirect_uri=${redirect_uri}&response_type=code&scope=A&code_challenge=${code_challenge}code_challenge_method=S256"
```

Breaking that request down, here are the query params.

| param                 | description                                                              |
| --------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| client_id             | a registered client id within Apigee Edge                                |
| redirect_uri          | a valid uri registered for the API Product authorized by that client ID. |
| response_type         | always `code` in this example, for authorization code grant.             |
| scope                 | a space-separated list of scopes allowed by this API Product.            |
| code_challenge        | the [code challenge](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7636#section-4.1) as described by RFC 7636. |
| code_challenge_method | the code challenge method. For calls to this proxy, must always have the value S256.            |


## Helper

There is [a helper page](https://dinochiesa.github.io/pkce-redirect/pkce-link-builder.html) to assist you in building the /authorize URL.
Fill in the form with the appropriate values for your org, env, app etc.
The helper will automatically generate a random verifier and a challenge.
Once you get the URL, right click it and open the page in a new tab. (keep the helper tab open separately)

Nothing like the helper will ever be seen by a real user. This is just a development-time tool, useful for demonstrating and exercising the flow. Once a real app is built, it embeds the URL that might be generated by the helper, into its own code.

## Command-line tools

If you want to invoke the API from the command line, you can create a code verifier and compute the code challenge using the accompanying tool, [contriveProofKey.js](./tools/contriveProofKey.js).  This tool just generates a random string and then computes a SHA256 hash of it.

You need node and npm installed, in order to use this tool.

```js
cd tools
npm install
node ./contriveProofKey.js
```

Successful output looks like this:

```
code_verifier=H51JplDGBt55sQCvnVOY5252vczj55565649oy48EKfZXtmMsRWsPAXhjUpeVltQpZ4950bR50UTJHPpfgVEuqOWsccNL49io54hh54a52u52oGyFH55xGY55xFaQ55kYMz4855
code_challenge=a_Azw48swzMP8Y3AXufd7qPQ1abMyn_3S_deGuvXBbY
```

## Invoke the URL

Paste the resulting URL into a browser tab. (or right-click to open in a new tab)

Invoking the URL for the /authorize request will redirect you to a URL for the login-and-consent app.  You need to open the resulting link in a browser and authenticate.

The login-and-consent app uses a mock user database, and these are the valid username / password pairs:
* dino@apigee.com / IloveAPIs
* valerie@example.com / Wizard123
* heidi@example.com / 1Performance
* greg@example.com / Memento4Quiet
* naimish@example.com / Imagine4


Once you authenticate and grant consent, you will receive a code via the redirect_uri.


## To Exchange the code and verifier for a token

Copy the code shown in the redirect_uri web page, then paste it into a request like so:

```
curl -i -X POST "https://$ORG-$ENV.apigee.net/20181127/oauth2-ac-pkce/token" \
   -u ${client_id}:${client_secret} \
   -d 'grant_type=authorization_code&code=${authorization_code}&code_verifier=XXXX'
```

Or, you can return to the helper page and
paste in the code in the appropriate box.  The helper page will generate the
CURL request that allows you to redeem the code for a token.  Paste in the code
and press TAB to get the URL to appear.


When you invoke the /token request, if the code is invalid, or if the code
verifier does not match the challenge you used to obtain the code, the token
request will return 401.


## Support

This example is just an illustration. It is not a supported part of Apigee Edge.
If you need assistance, you can try inquiring on
[The Apigee Community Site](https://community.apigee.com).  There is no service-level
guarantee for responses to inquiries regarding this proxy.

## License

This material is copyright 2018 Google LLC.
and is licensed under the [Apache 2.0 License](LICENSE).

## Bugs

* The /token request is not CORS compliant, so redeeming the code for a token from the helper page does not work.
  (Must use curl).

* There are no command-line helper tools to:
  * provision the cache,
  * create the developer, product, and app,
  * deploy the api proxy
  * etc
